Classes & Objects
Classes : Group of theses entities (interface). blue print of object
Objects: entities in the real world. e.g. Pen. Object creted inside heap
in class we have attributes (properties), and we have functions (behaviours)

class name start with capital latter
and function name start with lower case

Access Modifiers     within class         within package          outside package by subclass only        outside package  
Private                Y                       N                        N                                      N
Default                Y                       Y                        N                                      N
Protected              y                       y                        y                                      N
Public                 Y                       Y                        Y                                      Y                   

Getters & setters
Get : to return the value
Set : to modify the value

we can not private and protected modifiers infront of class
You can provide only a less restrictive or same-access modifier when overriding a method

              Private         default           protected            public
class          No               Yes                 No                Yes
Nested Class   Yes              Yes                 Yes               Yes
Constructor    Yes              Yes                 Yes               Yes
Method         Yes              Yes                 Yes               Yes
Field          Yes              Yes                 Yes               Yes

this : this keyword is used to refer to the current object
Constructors: Constructors is a special methods which is invoked automatically at the time of object creation
- Constructors have the same name as class or structure.
- Constructors don't have a return type. (Not even void)
- Constructors are only called once, at object creation
- Memory allocation happens when constructor is called.

Types of Constructors
Non-parameterized
parameterized
Copy Constructor : copy constructor transfer properties of object one into second object

Constructor ovrloading (polymorphisum) : when we create multiple constructors with different parameter. when we create new object appropriate constructor will be called
Number of parameters: For example, one constructor with no arguments and another with two.
Data types of parameters: For example, one using an int and another using a String.
Order of parameters: For example, (int, String) versus (String, int) 

Encapsulation : encapsulation is defined as the wrapping up of data & methods under a single unit. it also implements data hiding. e.g. class 

shallow & Deep Copy :
Shallow : it copy reference , and reflect changes , copied object pointing to the original object
Deep : changes do not reflect , it create new copy of new object 

Destructors : garbage collector work as Destructors we don't need to write Destructors

Inheritance: is when properties & methods of base class (parent class) are passed on to a derived class (child class). 

I can have parent class reference = child object
class Vehicle{}
class Car extends Vehicle{}
True statment for above code 
1. Car c = new Car();
2. Vehicle v = new Vehicle();
3. Vehicle v = new Car();

Types of Inheritance:
Single level Inheritance:   Base class ----> Derived class
Multi Level Inheritance:  Base class ----> Derived class -----> derived class
Hierarchial Inheritance: Base class 
                          /       \
                         /         \
                        /           \
                    Derived class    Derived class

Hybrid Inheritance: Base class 
                     /       \
                    /         \
                   /           \
            Derived class    Derived class
                                |
                                |
                                |
                                |
                         Derived class
Multiple Inheritance: (in c++)

polymorphisum:  poly means many and morphism means forms

Types of polymorphisum
Compile Time polymorphisum: Method overloading 
Run Time polymorphisum: Method overriding

Method overloading : Multiple functions with the same name but different parameters
Method overriding: Parent and child classes both contain the same function with a different definition
You can provide only a less restrictive or same-access modifier when overriding a method

Packages in java: package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-Packages
Types of packages 
In built : e.g. util package
User defined: writing package name on top of file to make that file of package


Abstraction: Hiding all the innecessary details and showing only the important parts to the users
To implement abstraction we use Abstract classes and interfaces

Abstract Class: created by writing abstract key word infromt of class e.g. abstract class a
cannot create an instance of abstract (Object) class
can have abstract/non- abstract methods
Can have constructors

Class: is an blue print of object
Interface: is an blue print of class is use to define following
- multiple Inheritance
- total abstraction 

Interface
- all methods are public, abstract & without implementation
- Used to achieve total abstraction
- variables in the interface are final, public and static
- to define Interface we use inferface key word
- to inheritate inferface we use implement key word

Multiple inheritance : child class c has properties of A and B both

A           B
\           /
 \         /
  \      /
      C

Static keyword: static keyword in java used to share the same veriable or method of given class
we can use static key word for
properties
functions
Blocks
Mested Classes

because of static methos or veriables all object can use same veriable. it saves memory and 

Super keyword: super keyword is used to refr immediate parent class object.
- to access parent's properties
- to access parent's function
- to access parent's constructor

Constructor chaining 

Recursion: recursion is a method of solving a computational problem where the solution depends on solution to smaller instances of the smae problem.

step to solve recursion 
1. base case
2. do some work
3. inner call

Sorting Algorithems
1. bubble Sorting    : best case time complexity   O(n^2)             worst case time complexity : O(n^2)
2. selection Sorting
3. insertion sorting 
4. counting sorting
5. inbuilt sorting

Divide & Conquer
6. Merge Sort       time coplexity = O(nlogn)       space complexity O(n) due to usage of tem array
7. quick Sort

Time Complexity & space Complexity
Order Complexity Analysis

Amount of space or time taken up by an algorithms/ code as function of input size.
Not the actual time taken.

Theoretical analysis of linear search
Linear time complexity = O(n) 
Constant time complexity = O(1)

Big O Botation: Big O gives us upper bound

Big Omega Notation : lower bound or best case time complexity 
Big theta: average bound or average time complexity

Common Complexities smallest to largest
O(1)
O(logn)
O(n)
O(n^2)
O(2^n)

Space Complexity : input space + auxiliary space

Recursive algorithms time and space Complexity
do call stack analysis to find time complexity
time complexity if O(n) for linear recursion
space complexity used by call stack O(n)
Time complexity = work done = no of calls * work in each call

Types of Backtracking
Decision          : Answer in terms of yes or no
Optimization      : find optimize path
Enumeration       :


Array                                        ArrayList
fixed size                                   dynamic size
primitive data types can be stores           primitive data types can't be stores directly

In ArrayList different operation can be done
Add Element               O(1)
Get Element               O(1)
Remove Element            O(n)
Set Element at Index      O(n)
Containst Element         O(n)

whenever we utilize full arraylist computer creates double sized arraylist and copy all elements of previous list in new list

LinkedList
Add in Linked list : 
1. add First
  - create new node
  - new nodes's next = head      (new node's next is head)
  - head = new node               (make new node as head)
2. add Last 

Java Collection Framework  has built in linked list

Stack  // Last in First out
1. push O(1)
2. Pop O(1)
3. Peek O(1)     // checking element  

Implementation 
Array          - using array we can creae fixed size stack
ArrayList      - veriable size
LinkedList     - veriable size